---
date: 2026-02-22
layout: post
title: Girl Interupted 
subtitle: ""
description: The Hero's Journey
dark_post: true
image: /assets/img/uploads/ashmystic.jpeg
optimized_image: /assets/img/uploads/ashmystic.jpeg
category: inspire
tags: soul retrieval
author: awinter

---








# The Underworld and the Return

I did not know when I was born that I would be born into hardship. No one does. No child arrives expecting that their psyche will fracture, that their spirit will splinter, that innocence will be interrupted in ways that demand decades of reclamation.

And yet that is what happened.

You can interpret my story however you wish. You do not have to believe in God or the devil. You do not have to believe in spirit or source. You can look at this through psychology, through mysticism, through religion, through trauma theory. You can pathologize it. You can spiritualize it. You can reduce it to coping mechanisms or elevate it to myth. I cannot control the lens through which you see me.

What I know is this: my life unfolded in a way that resembles what Joseph Campbell called the Hero’s Journey.

Not the glamorous version. The underworld version.

Over and over again, devastating things happened around me. I lost my father to suicide. I lost my stepfather. I lost my brother. My mother ultimately chose to stop dialysis, and in its own quiet way that too felt like a surrender to death. Addiction threaded through my family. Suicide threaded through my family. The message I absorbed as a child was simple and brutal: when life becomes unbearable, you leave.

That was the model.

But I am not built that way.

Somewhere in me, even as a little girl, there was a longing to come home to myself. A hunger for joy. A refusal to accept that survival was the highest form of living. I wanted to feel alive. I wanted to experience meaning. I wanted to know what it felt like to live without the constant shadow of despair.

That longing carried me into the underworld.

To understand why I am the way I am, I had to go back. I had to look at the fractures instead of pretending they were personality traits. Many people do not do this. They say, this is just how I am. And that is one way to live. It is not wrong. It is simply one path.

But I was deeply unhappy. I could see patterns repeating in my life. I could see how manipulation, abuse, violence, and neglect kept finding me. I had been used. I had been violated. I had been conditioned to over function, to be hyper independent, to make everything right, to never need anyone. Independence became armor. Responsibility became identity. Trust felt dangerous.

Eventually I realized that I could not heal alone.

I tried many roads. Therapy. EMDR. Neurofeedback. Antidepressants. Anti anxiety medication. Dream work. Guided psilocybin journeys. I attempted ayahuasca, though that story deserves its own telling. I read books. I journaled. I meditated. I sat with grief that felt bottomless. I cried until there were no tears left. I did not fly to another country to find a shaman. I stayed here, in my own town, doing the work in place.

Healing does not require exotic geography. Sometimes it requires courage in the very place you were wounded.

A few years ago I reached a turning point. I understood that isolation had become another coping mechanism. The human nervous system is not designed to regulate itself in solitude forever. Community is not a luxury. It is biology.

So I joined a shadow group with Luke Adler Healing. There were eight of us. Four women. Four men. We did not meet in polished light. We met in our darkness. We did not exchange pleasantries over coffee. We laid our pain on the table from the beginning.

We camped in the woods for several days. We sat in circle for hours. We meditated. We spoke about what weighed on our hearts. About the anchors that kept us from joy. About the grief that felt immovable. We listened to one another without fixing, without spiritual bypassing, without pretending.

At one point, I screamed in the woods.

Not metaphorically. Literally.

A tarp was laid out between the trees, and I let out a scream that had been living inside my body for decades. I realized how much rage I was carrying. Rage over abuse. Rage over being manipulated. Rage over being harmed in ways that left scars both visible and invisible. Rage over giving pieces of myself to people who never saw my worth.

That scream was not about blame. It was about release.

Not everyone needs to do that. Not everyone grows up under the same weight. Some people are given maps, safety nets, trust funds, and families that model secure attachment and joy. I was not given that. I was given chaos and silence.

So I chose to break the silence.

The body remembers what the mind tries to forget. Trauma is not only a story. It is sensation. It is stored charge. It is tension in the shoulders, tightness in the jaw, hyper vigilance in the nervous system. You can intellectually understand your childhood and still feel trapped by it. Integration requires more than insight. It requires expression.

There are many ways to release what is stored. Therapy. Body work. Reiki. Tears. Honest conversation. Psychedelic journeys. Meditation. Time in nature. None of them are universal prescriptions. The path I chose will not be right for everyone. But it was right for me.

And something shifted.

I began to feel grounded. Not spiritually inflated. Not bypassing pain. Grounded. I felt more capable of holding both strength and softness within myself. My masculine drive and my feminine receptivity began to coexist instead of compete. I felt less like a fragmented survivor and more like an integrated woman.

Healing did not erase my past. It transformed my relationship to it.

We live in a culture that worships productivity. Go faster. Achieve more. Perform happiness. There is very little room for grief. Very little space for sorrow. Very little permission to say, I am not okay and I need help.

But we are not machines. We are complex beings with depth, memory, and longing. Whether you frame that spiritually or psychologically, the truth remains. There is more to us than what capitalism rewards.

I am beginning to share my story not for attention, but for permission. Permission for others to step into their own underworld and return. Permission to say that joy is not naïve. It is hard won. Permission to admit that healing is possible even after violence, even after addiction has taken loved ones, even after suicide fractures a family.

The Hero’s Journey is not about slaying dragons. It is about facing what almost broke you and choosing to live anyway.

I chose to live.

And not just survive.

If you are in the dark right now, I want you to know this: healing is real. It is slow. It is nonlinear. It is sometimes terrifying. But it is real. There is a version of you on the other side who can hold grief and joy at the same time.

That is the return.

And it is worth everything.
